ABP - Acronym for Project-Based Learning - a teaching method in which students learn by actively engaging in real-world and personally meaningful projects.
Algorithm - a set of mathematical instructions or rules that, especially if given to a computer, will help to calculate an answer to a problem.
API - Application Programming Interface.Software intermediary that allows two applications to "talk" to each other.
Application - The software that will be developed for the Integrative Project. Used to help manage the state of Covid-19 in England.
Application User Manual - Manual that explains the application.
Asymptotic behaviour - Behaviour of the software when reaching its limits.
Automatic validation - When given a set of test results, the software will validate them(or not) according to a set of test reference values.
Barcode - Code that identifies each test. Generated by an external API.
Benchmark algorithm - Algorithm that is used to compare the time it takes to do a certain task.
Best practice - a working method or set of working methods that is officially accepted as being the best to use in a particular business or industry.
Blood Samples - Samples of blood collected in the laboratories of "Many Labs" that can be used to determine if someone has Covid-19 or not.
Blood test - A scientific examination of a sample of blood, typically for the diagnosis of illness or for the detection and measurement of drugs or other substances.
Brute force algorithm- A method of problem solving in which every possibility is examined and the best one (or a best one) is chosen.
Subset - A part of a larger group of related things.
Business Context - The circumstances around the business that will decide the direction of the software product that will be developed.
Camel Case - Camel case is the practice of writing phrases without spaces or punctuation, indicating the separation of words with a single capitalized letter.
Citizen's card number - Number that identifies which citizen is which. Used in the application.
Chemical Laboratory - Place, located in the company's headquarters, where the blood(or swab) samples retrieved from the analysis laboratories are tested to see if the patient has Covid-19 or not.
Client - A customer or someone who receives services.
Clinical analyse - Exam of biological samples, typically used as a diagnostic technique.
Clinical analysis laboratory- Places where the Covid-19 tests are made,and later sent to a chemical laboratory. From there the data used in the software will be retrieved. Each one is part of a network throughout England.
Collect - to bring something together from different places or over a period of time.
Company - An organization that sells goods or services in order to make money.
Complexity analysis - Complexity analysis is also a tool that allows us to explain how an algorithm behaves as the input grows larger.
Courier - Person who carries and delivers the test samples from the clinical analysis laboratories to the chemical analysis laboratories.
Cover all England - Extends over all England area.
Covid-19 - Virus that created a worldwide pandemic. 
Covid-19 tests - Tests to see if a patient has the disease known as Covid-19. Performed by medical staff in laboratories.
Diagnosis - The identification of the nature of an illness or other problem by examination of the symptoms.
Doctor prescription - A doctor’s written direction for the medicine that someone needs and how it is to be used, or the medicine itself.
England - An european country that is part of the United Kingdom.
ESOFT - Engenharia de Software: first year, second semester subject studied by LEI students.
Exclusivity - The right to have or do something that is limited to only one person or organization.
External module - Is written as a separate source file that contains at least one import or export declaration.
Headquarter - The main offices of an organization.
Input - Information given to the software by the user.
Integrative Project - A project that we, as students(in teams) seek to create using the knowledge given to us by each subject of the UC.
Intellij IDE/Netbeans - IDEs used to create the software.
JaCoCo - Java Code Coverage. Used to generate the coverage report.
Javadoc - Documentation generation software for java.
JavaFX 11 - Software platform used to create the application graphical interface.
Junit 4 - Java unit testing framework.
Lab Order - Contains the type of test and parameters to be measured.
Laboratory coordinator - Staff that will confirm test validations after they determine that everything was done correctly.
LAPR2 - Laboratório de Projeto 2: first year, second semester subject studied by LEI students.
LEI - (Licensiatura em Engenharia Informática) The course of the students that will create the "Many Labs" Project.
Linear Regression algorithm - Linear Regression is a machine learning algorithm based on supervised learning. It performs a regression task. Regression models a target prediction value based on independent variables.
"Many Labs"(Company)- Many Labs is an English company that has a network of clinical analysis laboratories and that wants an application to manage the clinical analyses performed in its laboratories.
It also has exclusivity in England(It is the only company that can test people to see if they have Covid-19). 
"Many Labs" Document - The first document the students were given. It gives them the main rules, requirements and orientations of the Integrative Project.
Market - The business or trade in a particular product.
MATCP - Matemática Computacional: first year, second semester subject studied by LEI students.
MDISC - Matemática Discreta: first year, second semester subject studied by LEI students.
Measured - to discover the exact size or amount of something.
Medical Lab Technician - Personnel that will perform the Covid-19 tests on patients.
Module - one of a set of separate parts that, when combined, form a complete whole
Network - A large system consisting of many similar parts that are connected together to allow movement or communication between or along the parts, or between the parts and a control centre.
NHS - National Health Service.
Object Serialization - The process of converting an object into a stream of bytes to store the object or transmit it to memory, a database, or a file.
Ordering algorithm - Algorithm used by the application. It orders the client by TIF and name. It must be defined through a configuration file.
OO software - Object-Oriented Software.
Other tests support - The application's ability to create new test categories.
Output - Information given to the user by the software.
Parameters - Basic data obtained from tests, to determine whether the patient has Covid-19 or not.
Password - Authentication method,holds seven alphanumeric characters, including three capital letters and two digits.
Patient - Person with suspicion of being infected by Covid-19. They are given a Lab Order by a doctor.
PPROG - Paradigmas da Programação: first year, second semester subject studied by LEI students. 
Project - Based Learning(PBL)-Teaching method in which students gain knowledge and skills by working for an extended period of time to investigate and respond to an authentic, engaging, and complex question, problem, or challenge.
Receptionist - a person who works in a place such as a laboratory or hospital, who welcomes, helps pacients, stores information about the pacient and answers the phone.
Registration - Performed by a receptionist after receiving a patient's (client) citizen's card number,National Health Service(NHS) number,birth date,sex,Tax Identification number (TIF), phone number, e-mail and name.
Report - Written by a specialist doctor, and later given to a client. Contains the details about the patient's infection(or lack there of).
RUC - LAPR2 course's coordinator. Provides the students orientations in case of doubts about the document.
Scope - the range of a program.
Semester - Duration of an evaluation period in universities. It is also the time the students have to complete the Integrative Project.
Software - The programs and other operating information used by a computer.
SVG - Scalable Vector Graphics. Image format.
Student - Student of ISEP, LEI that will develop the Integrative Project. The students make up groups of ,usually, 4 or 5 members.
Swab Samples - Samples of swab(nasal secretion) collected in the laboratories of "Many Labs" that can be used to determine if someone has Covid-19 or not.
Territory - An area of land under the jurisdiction of a ruler or state.
Test reference values - Values that are used to determine if someone has Covid-19 or not.
Testing - The act or practice of giving tests to measure something.
TIF - Tax Identification Number.
Time complexity - The time complexity is the number of operations an algorithm performs to complete its task (considering that each operation takes the same amount of time). The algorithm that performs the task in the smallest number of operations is considered the most efficient one in terms of the time complexity.
UC - (Unidade Curricular) Curricular Unit that the students look to pass. The one that this project is part of is made up of ESOFT,LAPR2,PPROG,MATCP,MDISC.
Validation work - The act of confirming/approving or certifying something.

 

 








































